# Tryharding a beginner-level course: AP CS Principles
## Overview
I'm taking AP CSP in my junior year of high school. My actual skill level is somewhat larger, so I often find myself finishing quickly. This is where the tryharding begins.
<br>
<br>
In one project, I had the bright idea to waste hours recreating Windows. Yes, THAT Windows. The Bill Gates one. We use a program called [Snap](https://snap.berkeley.edu) which is a visual block coding language. So how did I recreate Windows with this ooga booga caveman technology? 
<br>
Simple: I didn't (technically I did but we'll get to that). I opted to use Javascript which Snap happens to support natively (*happy nerd noises*). However I quickly saw an issue. The sheer amount of HTML and Javascript I was using began to overload Snap's GUI, causing immense clientside lag. For this reason, I moved the main portion of the code [here](https://gkieran.github.io/schoolstuff/snapwindows/index.html), and referenced it through an iframe in the Snap project. The only requirement for this project was that we had to use custom blocks in Snap, which I fulfilled by creating a block to add dependencies, a block to create a content frame, and several blocks to manipulate said content frame. You can check out the project on Snap [here](https://snap.berkeley.edu/snap/snap.html#present:Username=beanfrog&ProjectName=csp%20choice%20assignment%20%28windows%20clone%29&editMode&noRun). 

## Applications
### Settings
Allows the user to set the desktop background to one of six provided options, or upload a custom image/paste an image link.
### Info
Displays some info about the project. Basically an abridged version of this blog post, that roasts you for your horrible drawing and writing skills
### Paint
MS Paint clone, AKA the greatest artistic software in the world. Suck it, Photoshop!
### Click Alonzo
A version of the APCSP starter project, Click Alonzo, but written in Javascript and using the HTML Canvas API
### Notepad
Just a notepad, you can write whatever you want here (but you suck at writing lol)
### Browser
A slightly functional web browser. Many sites don't work due to strict Cross-Origin policies. However you *can* load Snap in this browser, so inception is possible here...
### Code
A simple code editor for HTML, CSS, and Javascript. Works on a similar premise as CodePen, but mine is way ~~worse~~ better


## Technical Details for Nerds

This project uses several libraries and frameworks. 
<br>
First up is Tailwind CSS. I must admit, I have a huge, huge, HUGE addiction to Tailwind. The choice to use Tailwind for the actual Windows UI part isn't that bad, but I also used it for the iframe styling on Snap. Yes, I imported Tailwind and set a single element to use absolute positioning and take up the whole page with it. It would have been so much easier to just use inline styles but noooooo, my Tailwind-addicted a** just HAD to use mY FaVoWiTe CsS FwAmEwOrK.
<br>
Next, I used jQuery/jQuery UI. These are in here pretty much just to use jQuery UI's `$(element).draggable();` function which is so much easier to create draggable windows. I also used jQuery's `$(element).hide();` and `$(element).show();` functions just to give the library something to do.
<br>
Now obviously I used FontAwesome. There's no way in hell I'm gonna create all the svgs from scratch, or download them and deal with all the finicky resizing and positioning, when I could just use ```<i class="fa-brands fa-windows text-2xl"></i>```. So much nicer :)
<br>
Originally, the project in Snap was a poorly-cropped jpeg of a gaming pc, and a little speech bubble telling you to click it to start Windows. Upon clicking, Snap would disappear and the Windows mimic would appear. "That's a little boring though," I thought. And thus the decision to turn this project into a PC building simulator was made.
<br>
Here's how that works:
- Several PC components and a case are spread out across the stage. (Motherboard, GPU, RAM, Power Supply, CPU/Cooler)
- Little guy in the corner tells you to drag each component to where it goes and to click his face to check.
- when his face is clicked, a boolean value for each component is checked, if the component is in a valid range of X and Y values (relative to the stage), it returns true. If all component values return true, the guy tells you to click the power button to start the PC and a power button appears.
- if you get it wrong though, you start feeling like Sisyphus as you slightly move every single component to try and figure out what you did wrong. This is pretty much what actually building a PC feels like, unless you're Linus Sebastian.
