# Project Overview: Beansuite
Somewhat recently, I published a repository called beansuite. This is a custom piece of software that mimics Google Drive and Docs. Here's an overview and explanation of the project.
### Conception
Beansuite was a really fun project for me. It all started in the cabin at Kennolyn Camps, while we had some downtime. I started scribbling down new project ideas in my notepad, and I thought of an office suite. Surely we don't have enough of those right? I guess GSuite, MS office, Libre Office and more just weren't enough for me then....
### Software 
For the document editor, I initially tried to make my own text editor from scratch. To say I failed would be an understatement. I started looking for Javascript libraries to use instead, and after bouncing around between QuillJS and retrying the custom approach, I settled on TinyMCE which has incredibly robust features out of the box, and is extremely easy to expand upon. I created a custom gray and blue theme that I think really pops and looks nice. Next, I created a custom toolbar button that automatically formats the page in MLA format. This pretty much completed the easy part of the frontend, but now I had to figure out how to save and load files. Enter: expressJS and nodeJS. This dynamic duo powers the entire backend of Beansuite, which is really nice since almost the entire project would be written in Javascript (my preferred language). Using GET and FETCH calls from the frontend, I was able to load and save HTML files, which TinyMCE outputs, to the server. For loading files, I initially tried appending the TinyMCE initialization code to each saved html file and then loading that directly. Eventually this ended up causing some issues that I couldn't figure out how to fix, so I came up with a different workaround. I ended up adding a query parameter to the URL of the base document, and some javascript that uses a GET request to find a matching document in the saves folder, then load its contents in the editor. This seemed to work fine, and it stuck.
<br>
The drive page is quite simple. There is a template literal containg some html, then a GET request is sent to the server to get the names of every saved document in the saves directory. The server sends back the title of each document, along with the time and date of the last edit, which is put into the literal and appended into the page. Each document card is wrapped with an anchor element pointing to the template document with the query parameter set to the document's title.

### Next steps for Beansuite
I plan to add a slideshow editor to Beansuite that includes several styles of parallax transition out-of-the-box. Additionally, I'd like to clean up the backend code and optimize it slightly.

### Try it yourself
<a target="_blank" class="underline" href="https://github.com/bean-frog/beansuite">Beansuite on Github</a>
README.md in this repo provides setup instructions