# Tuneguessr Guide
### Welcome, weary traveler! <br>
### This short guide will cover all of the ins and outs of my new game, <a target="_blank" href="https://bean-frog.github.io/tuneguessr" class="underline">Tuneguessr</a>

#### Overview:
Tuneguessr is a game very similar to geoguessr, but rather than showing a street view location, it plays you a song that is either from or is related to that country. There is the default normal mode, but there is also a "Metal Mode", toggleable in the settings menu, which only plays metal songs (for all my metalheads out there)

### Playing Tuneguessr
- Once a user has completed onboarding (or they have previously), a popup will appear saying hello to them and displaying a start game button
- when this button is pressed, a song will begin playing. The player must guess which country the song is from or is related to, then click that country on the map. By default, the countries which are NOT valid options will appear lighter in color but still be selectable.
- once a guess is made, the user pressed space or clicks the check button, which will display a green or red bar as well as a next button which starts the process over. Statistics are also updated and recalculated at this time.


#### UI Features
- <strong>Sidebar</strong>:
    - Triple bar button (top left): Opens a menu with some general links such as bug reporting
    - Selected country label and flag: Displays the name and flag of the currently selected country
    - Audio Controls: Very simple, play/pause and restart. 
    - Check button: checks your guess, and can be actuated using the Space key
    - Status area: turns red or green based on your answer correctness, and shows a 'Next' button which can also be pressed with space
    - Statistics area: Displays some statistics about your guessing (Total guesses, Correct guesses, Incorrect guesses, Percent correct)
    - Settings button: Opens a menu with some settings in the game
<strong>Menus</strong>
    - General Menu: opened with the triple bar button, contains general things like bug reports that would clutter the ui if not in their own menu
    - Settings menu: opened with the settings button, contains options to toggle country differentiation based on inclusion, toggle metal mode, change username, and wipe statistic data
    - Onboarding menu: Only shown once, the first time a user opens Tuneguessr. This menu gets a username from the user which is used to refer to them in the statistics, and may be used for other functions later.


